Added blogpost draft for approvals in pulumi esc (#15612)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/approvals-in-pulumi-esc/index.md

authors:
    - pablo-terradillos
    - claire-gaestel

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - esc

# The social copy used to promote this post on Twitter and Linkedin. These
# properties do not actually create the post and have no effect on the
# generated blog page. They are here strictly for reference.

# Here are some examples of posts we have made in the past for inspiration:
# https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7171191945841561601
# https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7169021002394296320
# https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7155606616455737345
# https://twitter.com/PulumiCorp/status/1763265391042654623
# https://twitter.com/PulumiCorp/status/1762900472489185492
# https://twitter.com/PulumiCorp/status/1755637618631405655

social:
    twitter:
    linkedin:

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/docs/blob/master/BLOGGING.md
# for details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

Did you know that 80% of unplanned outages aren’t caused by hardware failures or cyberattacks, but by the very changes we make to improve our systems?

> We’re excited to announce the release of [**Approvals** in Pulumi ESC](/docs/esc/administration/approvals/)—a new feature that enables organizations to bring governance and oversight directly into their environment configuration workflows.

Reviewer: Can we add a comment to our existing work in this area?  Something like "Pulumi ESC already enables safer change management with our innovative versioning capability." (link to versioning video or some other collateral).

I want to boost SEO and embed the "change management" as what differentiates ESC.

With Approvals, teams can require explicit review and sign-off before applying changes to ESC-managed environments, bringing the same rigor to configuration as they already have with infrastructure-as-code and application development.

---

## Enforce Change Management Without Slowing Teams Down

> Pulumi ESC helps teams manage environment configurations—such as secrets, feature flags, and application settings—across services and environments, from development through production.

Reviewer: Adding features flags here is a bold claim. Sure we can do very simple flags but we do not allow for any fine grained resolution.

This gives you a native, consistent workflow for gating configuration updates without needing external tools or manual oversight.

---

## How It Works

To get started, navigate to your environment’s **Settings → Approval Rulesets**, where you can define approval requirements such as:

- Number of required reviewers  
- Specific teams or individuals allowed to approve  
- Whether self-approval is permitted  
- Whether changes require reapproval if modified

Once a ruleset is enabled, any environment update must go through a **change request** workflow. Instead of directly saving changes, contributors create a draft, which then must be reviewed and approved before being applied.

![Pulumi ESC Approvals Workflows](approvals-workflow.png)

Changes pending approval are clearly visible to your team, and reviewers can inspect the diff, leave feedback, or revise the request before approving.

Approvals are also fully supported in the [Pulumi ESC CLI](https://github.com/pulumi/esc), using the `--draft` flag:

```sh
$ esc env set --draft org/project/env FEATURE_X_ENABLED true
```

## Built for Collaboration and Compliance

> Whether you’re enforcing separation of duties, complying with industry standards, or simply want better visibility into changes, Approvals helps bring structure to how configuration flows through your systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you’re enforcing separation of duties, complying with industry standards or regulations, or simply want better visibility into changes, Approvals helps bring process to how configuration flows through your systems.
```
